UNITED NATIONS NATIONS UNIES United Nations Interim Mission d’Administration UNMIK Administration Mission Intérimaire des Nations in Kosovo Unies au Kosovo UNMIK Investigation Task Force Pristina,  December  Case / Pristina Airport – Possible administrative irregularity regarding tender procedures involving Vendor  and Vendor  
Allegation:
Two companies with the same owner took part at least three times in the same Airport tenders. 
Background Information:
The Kosovo citizen, Vendor  and Vendor  Representative, is the owner and Director of the Pristina-based Vendor  and also a % shareholder of the Pristina-Ljubljana-based company Vendor 
2. Both companies have their residences at the same address in Pristina. Both Vendor  and Vendor  submitted three times in  for the same tenders: 
1. Supply and Mounting of Sonic System in the Fire Station Building. Winner was Vendor  with €, followed by Vendor  with €,62
0. The third company, Vendor , did not provide a price offer. 
2. Cabling of Flat Display Information System (FIDS). Winner was Vendor  with €, followed by Vendor  with €,248.7
0. The other two competitors, Vendor  and Vendor , offered prices of Euro , and Euro ,04
5. 
3. Purchase and fixing of Cramer Antenna. Winner was again Vendor  with €,627.99 followed by Vendor  with €,92
1. The other two competitors, Vendor  and Vendor , offered prices of €, and €,67
0. 
Investigative details:
In his/her interviews conducted on 31st August and 14th September , Vendor  and Vendor  Representative admitted that the fact that both Vendor  and Vendor  took part together in three Airport tenders put other competitors at a disadvantage, but alleged both companies have never exchanged information with regard to the price offers.  There were doubts whether both companies Vendor  and Vendor  exist and submitted bids for the three tenders. The ITF investigation, with support from the Kosovo Organised Crime Bureau (KOCB), has found no reference with regard to the existence of the alleged competitor Vendor  in Pristina. The alleged company Vendor  was found to be a supermarket located in Prizren. The above-mentioned facts are already part of the ITF case no. / that was submitted to the International Prosecutor, UNMIK Department of Justice, in October 200
4. On  December , the ITF contacted the International Prosecutor for a legal assessment of this case. Although this case would clearly be a breach of Economic Law, there is no applicable law in Kosovo for the time being. 
Conclusions:
The entire matter has to be seen as an administrative irregularity. It is obvious that international procurement rules and economic crime law had been breached but the Procurement Regulation that was in force at that time – Financial Agreement / – does not indicate cases like described before and Kosovo does not have yet any Economic Law. As agreed with the International Prosecutor, a copy of the Final Report will be provided for him as background information related to the ITF case no. /0
4. 
Recommendations:
It is recommended that UNMIK, and in particular, the KTA undertake the following actions: Recommendation : The Airport staff responsible for procurement activity should receive adequate training in the handling of procurement matters and to adhere to all applicable Procurement Regulations. Recommendation : The Airport staff responsible for procurement activity has to ensure a fair competition and pay more attention to check the background of the bidding companies. 